ISASET(8)                                              System Manager's Manual                                             ISASET(8)

NAME
       isaset - set ISA registers

SYNOPSIS
       isaset [-y] [-W|-L] addrreg datareg address value [mask] #for I2C-like access
       isaset -f [-y] [-W|-L] address value [mask] #for flat address space

DESCRIPTION
       isaset is a small helper program to set registers visible through the ISA bus.

OPTIONS
       -f     Enable flat address space mode.

       -y     Disable  interactive  mode.  By default, isaset will wait for a confirmation from the user before messing with the ISA
              bus. When this flag is used, it will perform the operation directly. This is mainly meant to be used in scripts.

       -W     Perform a 16-bit write.

       -L     Perform a 32-bit write.

OPTIONS (I2C-like access mode)
       Four options must be provided to isaset. addrreg contains the ISA address of the address register  for  the  chip  to  probe;
       datareg  contains  the  address  of the data register. Both addresses are integers between 0x0000 and 0x3FFF. Usually, if the
       chip's base address is 0x0nn0, the address register is at 0x0nn5 and the data register is at 0x0nn6.  The  most  common  base
       address for hardware monitoring chips is 0x0290.  For Super-I/O chips, address register is typically at 0x2E with data regis‐
       ter at 0x2F.  The address and value parameters are two integers between 0x00 and 0xFF.  isaset  will  write  value  value  to
       address address.  An optional mask can be provided as a fifth parameter, preserving unmasked bits at the written location.

OPTIONS (flat address space mode)
       In flat mode, two parameters must be provided. address contains the ISA address of the register to write to; it is an integer
       between 0x0000 and 0xFFFF. Basically, it is the sum of the chip's base address and the chip register's address.  isaset  will
       write  value  value  at this address.  An optional mask can be provided as a third parameter, preserving unmasked bits at the
       written location.

WARNING
       Poking around in ISA data space is extremely dangerous.  Running isaset with random parameters can cause system crashes, data
       loss, and worse!  Be extremely careful when using this program.

SEE ALSO
       i2cset(8), isadump(8)

AUTHOR
       Mark D. Studebaker, and the lm_sensors group (http://www.lm-sensors.org/)

       This manual page was shamelessly ripped from the i2cset and isadump manual pages by Jean Delvare.

                                                             April 2011                                                    ISASET(8)
