IR-CTL(1)                       User Commands                       IR-CTL(1)

NAME
       ir-ctl - a swiss-knife tool to handle raw IR and to set lirc options

SYNOPSIS
       ir-ctl [OPTION]...
       ir-ctl [OPTION]... --features
       ir-ctl [OPTION]... --send [pulse and space file to send]
       ir-ctl [OPTION]... --scancode [protocol and scancode to send]
       ir-ctl [OPTION]... --receive [save to file]

DESCRIPTION
       ir-ctl  is  a  tool  that  allows  one  to list the features of a lirc
       device, set its options, receive raw IR, send raw IR or send  complete
       IR scancodes.

       Note:  You  need  to  have  read or write permissions on the /dev/lirc
       device for options to work.

OPTIONS
       -d, --device=DEV
              lirc device to control, /dev/lirc0 by default

       -f, --features
              List the features of the lirc device.

       -r, --receive=[FILE]
              Receive IR and print to standard output if no  file  is  speci‐
              fied, else save to the filename.

       -s, --send=FILE
              Send IR in text file. It must be in the format described below.
              If this option is specified  multiple  times,  send  all  files
              in-order  with  a 125ms gap between them. The gap length can be
              modified with --gap.

       -S, --scancode=PROTOCOL:SCANCODE
              Send the IR scancode in the protocol  specified.  The  protocol
              must one of the protocols listed below, followed by a colon and
              the scancode number.  If  this  option  is  specified  multiple
              times,  send  all  scancodes  in-order with a 125ms gap between
              them. The gap length can be modified with --gap.

       -1, --oneshot
              When receiving, stop receiving after the  first  message,  i.e.
              after a space or timeout of more than 19ms is received.

       -w, --wideband
              Use the wideband receiver if available on the hardware. This is
              also known as learning mode. The measurements  should  be  more
              precise and any carrier frequency should be accepted.

       -n, --no-wideband
              Switches  back  to the normal, narrowband receiver if the wide‐
              band receiver was enabled.

       -R, --carrier-range=RANGE
              Set the accepted carrier range for the narrowband receiver.  It
              should be specified in the form 30000-50000.

       -m, --measure-carrier
              If  the hardware supports it, report what the carrier frequency
              is on receiving. You will get the keyword carrier  followed  by
              the  frequency.   This might use the wideband receiver although
              this is hardware specific.

       -M, --no-measure-carrier
              Disable reporting of the carrier frequency. This should make it
              possible to use the narrowband receiver. This is the default.

       -t, --timeout=TIMEOUT
              Set  the  length  of  a  space at which the receiver goes idle,
              specified in microseconds.

       -c, --carrier=CARRIER
              Sets the send carrier frequency.

       -D, --duty-cycle=DUTY
              Set the duty cycle for sending in percent if the hardware  sup‐
              port it.

       -e, --emitters=EMITTERS
              Comma  separated list of emitters to use for sending. The first
              emitter is number 1. Some devices  only  support  enabling  one
              emitter (the winbond-cir driver).

       -g, --gap=GAP
              Set  the  gap  between  scancodes or the gap between files when
              multiple files are specified on the command line.  The  default
              is 125000 microseconds.

       -?, --help
              Prints the help message

       --usage
              Give a short usage message

       -v, --verbose
              Verbose output; this prints the IR before sending.

       -V, --version
              print the v4l2-utils version

   Format of pulse and space file
       When  sending  IR, the format of the file should be as follows. A com‐
       ment start with #. The carrier frequency can be specified as:

            carrier 38000

       The file should contain alternating lines with pulse and  space,  fol‐
       lowed  by length in microseconds. The following is a rc-5 encoded mes‐
       sage:

            carrier 36000
            pulse 940
            space 860
            pulse 1790
            space 1750
            pulse 880
            space 880
            pulse 900
            space 890
            pulse 870
            space 900
            pulse 1750
            space 900
            pulse 890
            space 910
            pulse 840
            space 920
            pulse 870
            space 920
            pulse 840
            space 920
            pulse 870
            space 1810
            pulse 840

       Rather than specifying the raw IR, you can also specify  the  scancode
       and  protocol  you  want to send. This will also automatically set the
       correct carrier. The above can be written as:

            scancode rc5:0x1e01

       If multiple scancodes are specified in  a  file,  a  gap  is  inserted
       between  scancodes  if there is no space between then (see --gap). One
       file can only have one carrier frequency, so this might cause problems
       if different protocols are specified in one file if they use different
       carrier frequencies.

       Note that there are device-specific limits of how much IR can be  sent
       at  a  time.  This  can be both the length of the IR and the number of
       different lengths of space and pulse.

   Supported Protocols
       A scancode with protocol can be specified on the command  line  or  in
       the  pulse and space file. The following protocols are supported: rc5,
       rc5x_20, rc5_sz, jvc, sony12, sony15, sony20, nec, necx, nec32, sanyo,
       rc6_0,  rc6_6a_20, rc6_6a_24, rc6_6a_32, rc6_mce, sharp.  If the scan‐
       code starts with 0x it will be interpreted as  a  hexadecimal  number,
       and if it starts with 0 it will be interpreted as an octal number.

   Wideband and narrowband receiver
       Most IR receivers have a narrowband and wideband receiver. The narrow‐
       band receiver can receive over longer  distances  (usually  around  10
       metres  without  interference)  and is limited to certain carrier fre‐
       quencies.

       The wideband receiver is for higher precision  measurements  and  when
       the  carrier  frequency  is  unknown;  however it only works over very
       short distances (about 5 centimetres). This is also known as  learning
       mode.

       For  most  drivers, enabling carrier reports using -m also enables the
       wideband receiver.

   Global state
       All the options which can be set for lirc devices are maintained until
       the device is powered down or a new option is set.

EXIT STATUS
       On success, it returns 0. Otherwise, it will return the error code.

EXAMPLES
       To list all capabilities of /dev/lirc2:
            ir-ctl -f -d /dev/lirc2

       To show the IR of the first button press on a remote in learning mode:
            ir-ctl -r -m -w

       Note that ir-ctl -rmw would receive to a file called mw.

       To restore the normal (longer distance) receiver:
            ir-ctl -n -M

       To send the pulse and space file play on emitter 3:
            ir-ctl -e 3 --send=play

       To send the rc-5 hauppauge '1' scancode:
            ir-ctl -S rc5:0x1e01

       To restore the IR receiver on /dev/lirc2 to the default state:
            ir-ctl -Mn --timeout 125000 --device=/dev/lirc2

BUGS
       Report bugs to Linux Media Mailing List <linux-media@vger.kernel.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 2016 by Sean Young.

       License GPLv2: GNU GPL version 2 <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
       This  is  free  software:  you are free to change and redistribute it.
       There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

v4l-utils 1.14.2                Tue Jul 5 2016                      IR-CTL(1)
