LOOKBIB(1)                 General Commands Manual                 LOOKBIB(1)

NAME
       lookbib - search bibliographic databases

SYNOPSIS
       lookbib [ -v ] [ -istring ] [ -tn ] filename...

DESCRIPTION
       lookbib  prints  a  prompt  on the standard error (unless the standard
       input is not a terminal), reads from the standard input  a  line  con‐
       taining  a set of keywords, searches the bibliographic databases file‐
       name... for references containing those keywords,  prints  any  refer‐
       ences found on the standard output, and repeats this process until the
       end of input.  For each database filename to be searched, if an  index
       filename.i  created  by  indxbib(1)  exists,  then it will be searched
       instead; each index can cover multiple databases.

OPTIONS
       It is possible to have whitespace between a command  line  option  and
       its parameter.

       -v     Print the version number.

       -istring
              When searching files for which no index exists, ignore the con‐
              tents of fields whose names are in string.

       -tn    Only require the first n characters of keys to be given.   Ini‐
              tially n is 6.

FILES
       filename.i  Index files.

SEE ALSO
       refer(1), lkbib(1), indxbib(1)

COPYING
       Copyright © 1989-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission  is  granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
       manual provided the copyright notice and this  permission  notice  are
       preserved on all copies.

       Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
       manual under the conditions for verbatim copying,  provided  that  the
       entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a per‐
       mission notice identical to this one.

       Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this man‐
       ual  into  another  language,  under the above conditions for modified
       versions, except that this permission notice may be included in trans‐
       lations  approved  by  the  Free Software Foundation instead of in the
       original English.

Groff Version 1.22.3           10 February 2018                    LOOKBIB(1)
