PIGZ(1)                    General Commands Manual                    PIGZ(1)

NAME
       pigz, unpigz - compress or expand files

SYNOPSIS
       pigz  [ -cdfhikKlLmMnNqrRtz0..9,11 ] [ -b blocksize ] [ -p threads ] [ -S suf‐
       fix ] [ name ...  ]
       unpigz [ -cfhikKlLmMnNqrRtz ] [ -b blocksize ] [ -p  threads  ]  [  -S
       suffix ] [ name ...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       Pigz  compresses  using threads to make use of multiple processors and
       cores.  The input is broken up into 128 KB chunks with each compressed
       in parallel.  The individual check value for each chunk is also calcu‐
       lated in parallel.  The compressed data is written  in  order  to  the
       output,  and  a combined check value is calculated from the individual
       check values.

       The compressed data format generated is in the gzip, zlib, or  single-
       entry  zip  format using the deflate compression method.  The compres‐
       sion produces partial raw deflate streams which are concatenated by  a
       single  write  thread  and  wrapped  with  the  appropriate header and
       trailer, where the trailer contains the combined check value.

       Each partial raw deflate stream is terminated by an empty stored block
       (using  the Z_SYNC_FLUSH option of zlib), in order to end that partial
       bit stream at a byte boundary.  That allows the partial streams to  be
       concatenated  simply  as  sequences  of bytes.  This adds a very small
       four to five byte overhead to the output for each input chunk.

       The default input block size is 128K, but can be changed with  the  -b
       option.   The number of compress threads is set by default to the num‐
       ber of online processors, which can be changed using  the  -p  option.
       Specifying -p 1 avoids the use of threads entirely.

       The input blocks, while compressed independently, have the last 32K of
       the previous block loaded as a preset dictionary to preserve the  com‐
       pression  effectiveness  of deflating in a single thread.  This can be
       turned off using the -i or --independent option, so  that  the  blocks
       can  be  decompressed  independently for partial error recovery or for
       random access. This also inserts an extra empty block to flag indepen‐
       dent blocks by prefacing each with the nine-byte sequence (in hex): 00
       00 FF FF 00 00 00 FF FF.

       Decompression can't be parallelized, at least  not  without  specially
       prepared  deflate  streams for that purpose.  As a result, pigz uses a
       single thread (the main thread) for  decompression,  but  will  create
       three other threads for reading, writing, and check calculation, which
       can speed up decompression under some circumstances.  Parallel  decom‐
       pression  can be turned off by specifying one process ( -dp 1 or -tp 1
       ).

       All options on the command line are processed  before  any  names  are
       processed.  If no names are provided on the command line, or if "-" is
       given as a name (but not after "--"), then the  input  is  taken  from
       stdin.

       Compressed  files can be restored to their original form using pigz -d
       or unpigz.

OPTIONS
       -# --fast --best
              Regulate the speed of compression using the specified digit  #,
              where  -1  or  --fast  indicates the fastest compression method
              (less compression) and -9 or --best indicates the slowest  com‐
              pression method (best compression).  -0 is no compression.  -11
              gives a few percent better compression at a severe cost in exe‐
              cution  time,  using  the zopfli algorithm by Jyrki Alakuijala.
              The default is -6.

       -b --blocksize mmm
              Set compression block size to mmmK (default 128KiB).

       -c --stdout --to-stdout
              Write all processed output to stdout (won't delete).

       -d --decompress --uncompress
              Decompress the compressed input.

       -f --force
              Force overwrite, compress .gz, links, and to terminal.

       -h --help
              Display a help screen and quit.

       -i --independent
              Compress blocks independently for damage recovery.

       -k --keep
              Do not delete original file after processing.

       -K --zip
              Compress to PKWare zip (.zip) single entry format.

       -l --list
              List the contents of the compressed input.

       -L --license
              Display the pigz license and quit.

       -m --no-time
              Do not store or restore the modification time. -Nm  will  store
              or  restore  the name, but not the modification time. Note that
              the order of the options is important.

       -M --time
              Store or restore the  modification  time.  -nM  will  store  or
              restore  the modification time, but not the name. Note that the
              order of the options is important.

       -n --no-name
              Do not store or restore the file name or the modification time.
              This  is  the default when decompressing. When the file name is
              not restored from the header, the name of the  compressed  file
              with  the suffix stripped is the name of the decompressed file.
              When the modification time is not restored from the header, the
              modification  time of the compressed file is used (not the cur‐
              rent time).

       -N --name
              Store or restore both the file name and the modification  time.
              This is the default when compressing.

       -p --processes n
              Allow  up  to n processes (default is the number of online pro‐
              cessors)

       -q --quiet --silent
              Print no messages, even on error.

       -r --recursive
              Process the contents of all subdirectories.

       -R --rsyncable
              Input-determined block locations for rsync.

       -S --suffix .sss
              Use suffix .sss instead of .gz (for compression).

       -t --test
              Test the integrity of the compressed input.

       -v --verbose
              Provide more verbose output.

       -V --version
              Show the version of pigz. -vV also shows the zlib version.

       -z --zlib
              Compress to zlib (.zz) instead of gzip format.

       --     All arguments after "--" are treated as file names  (for  names
              that start with "-")

       These options are unique to the -11 compression level:

       -F --first
              Do iterations first, before block split (default is last).

       -I, --iterations n
              Number of iterations for optimization (default 15).

       -J, --maxsplits n
              Maximum number of split blocks (default 15).

       -O --oneblock
              Do not split into smaller blocks (default is block splitting).

COPYRIGHT NOTICE
       This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied war‐
       ranty.  In no event will the author be held  liable  for  any  damages
       arising from the use of this software.

       Copyright (C) 2007-2017 Mark Adler <madler@alumni.caltech.edu>

                              December 26, 2017                       PIGZ(1)
