GPG-PRESET-PASSPHRASE(1)    GNU Privacy Guard 2.1    GPG-PRESET-PASSPHRASE(1)

NAME
       gpg-preset-passphrase - Put a passphrase into gpg-agent's cache

SYNOPSIS
       gpg-preset-passphrase [options] [command] cache-id

DESCRIPTION
       The gpg-preset-passphrase is a utility to seed the internal cache of a
       running gpg-agent with passphrases.  It is  mainly  useful  for  unat‐
       tended machines, where the usual pinentry tool may not be used and the
       passphrases for the to be used keys are given at machine startup.

       This program works with GnuPG 2 and later.   GnuPG  1.x  is  not  sup‐
       ported.

       Passphrases  set  with  this  utility don't expire unless the --forget
       option is used to explicitly clear them from the  cache  ---  or  gpg-
       agent  is  either  restarted  or reloaded (by sending a SIGHUP to it).
       Note that the maximum cache time as set with --max-cache-ttl is  still
       honored.   It  is  necessary  to  allow  this passphrase presetting by
       starting gpg-agent with the --allow-preset-passphrase.

       gpg-preset-passphrase is invoked this way:

         gpg-preset-passphrase [options] [command] cacheid

       cacheid is either a 40 character  keygrip  of  hexadecimal  characters
       identifying the key for which the passphrase should be set or cleared.
       The keygrip is listed along with the key  when  running  the  command:
       gpgsm  --with-keygrip  --list-secret-keys.  Alternatively an arbitrary
       string may be used to identify a passphrase; it is suggested that such
       a string is prefixed with the name of the application (e.g foo:12346).
       Scripts should always use the option --with-colons, which provides the
       keygrip in a "grp" line (cf. ‘doc/DETAILS’)/

       One of the following command options must be given:

       --preset
              Preset  a  passphrase.  This is what you usually will use. gpg-
              preset-passphrase will then read the passphrase from stdin.

       --forget
              Flush the passphrase for the given cache ID from the cache.

       The following additional options may be used:

       -v
       --verbose
              Output additional information while running.

       -P string
       --passphrase string
              Instead of reading the passphrase from stdin, use the  supplied
              string as passphrase.  Note that this makes the passphrase vis‐
              ible for other users.

SEE ALSO
       gpg(1), gpgsm(1), gpg-agent(1), scdaemon(1)

       The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a  Texinfo  man‐
       ual.   If  GnuPG  and  the info program are properly installed at your
       site, the command

         info gnupg

       should give you access to the complete manual including a menu  struc‐
       ture and an index.

GnuPG 2.2.4                       2017-12-18         GPG-PRESET-PASSPHRASE(1)
