VACUUMLO(1)             PostgreSQL 11.7 Documentation             VACUUMLO(1)

NAME
       vacuumlo - remove orphaned large objects from a PostgreSQL database

SYNOPSIS
       vacuumlo [option...] dbname...

DESCRIPTION
       vacuumlo is a simple utility program that will remove any “orphaned”
       large objects from a PostgreSQL database. An orphaned large object
       (LO) is considered to be any LO whose OID does not appear in any oid
       or lo data column of the database.

       If you use this, you may also be interested in the lo_manage trigger
       in the lo module.  lo_manage is useful to try to avoid creating
       orphaned LOs in the first place.

       All databases named on the command line are processed.

OPTIONS
       vacuumlo accepts the following command-line arguments:

       -l limit
           Remove no more than limit large objects per transaction (default
           1000). Since the server acquires a lock per LO removed, removing
           too many LOs in one transaction risks exceeding
           max_locks_per_transaction. Set the limit to zero if you want all
           removals done in a single transaction.

       -n
           Don't remove anything, just show what would be done.

       -v
           Write a lot of progress messages.

       -V
       --version
           Print the vacuumlo version and exit.

       -?
       --help
           Show help about vacuumlo command line arguments, and exit.

       vacuumlo also accepts the following command-line arguments for
       connection parameters:

       -h hostname
           Database server's host.

       -p port
           Database server's port.

       -U username
           User name to connect as.

       -w
       --no-password
           Never issue a password prompt. If the server requires password
           authentication and a password is not available by other means such
           as a .pgpass file, the connection attempt will fail. This option
           can be useful in batch jobs and scripts where no user is present
           to enter a password.

       -W
           Force vacuumlo to prompt for a password before connecting to a
           database.

           This option is never essential, since vacuumlo will automatically
           prompt for a password if the server demands password
           authentication. However, vacuumlo will waste a connection attempt
           finding out that the server wants a password. In some cases it is
           worth typing -W to avoid the extra connection attempt.

NOTES
       vacuumlo works by the following method: First, vacuumlo builds a
       temporary table which contains all of the OIDs of the large objects in
       the selected database. It then scans through all columns in the
       database that are of type oid or lo, and removes matching entries from
       the temporary table. (Note: Only types with these names are
       considered; in particular, domains over them are not considered.) The
       remaining entries in the temporary table identify orphaned LOs. These
       are removed.

AUTHOR
       Peter Mount <peter@retep.org.uk>

PostgreSQL 11.7                      2020                         VACUUMLO(1)
